[Grid & Stack] Design guidelines (#333)
primer/brand: apps/docs/content/components/Stack/index.mdx

---
title: Stack

> description: Use the stack component to enable layout of its immediate children along the vertical or horizontal axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the Stack component to create a layout for its immediate children along the vertical or horizontal axis.
```

---

import CustomVideoPlayer from '../../../src/components/custom-video-player'
import ComponentLayout from '../../../src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

![](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/f04a87ce-a4ca-403b-8732-a8575a39437a)

## Usage

> Use the stack component to offer space distribution and alignment between items in a vertical or horizontal direction (one-dimensional layout)[^1]. If you need vertical and horizontal layout (two-dimensional layout), use the [grid](/components/Grid) component instead. When in doubt, we recommend reding the [grid vs stack](/components/Grid#grid-vs-stack) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the stack component to distribute space and alignment between items in a vertical or horizontal direction (one-dimensional layout)[^1]. If you need both vertical and horizontal layout (two-dimensional layout), use the [grid](/components/Grid) component instead. When in doubt, we recommend reding the [grid vs stack](/components/Grid#grid-vs-stack) documentation.
```

Reviewer 2: FYI minor typo

```suggestion
Use the stack component to offer space distribution and alignment between items in a vertical or horizontal direction (one-dimensional layout)[^1]. If you need vertical and horizontal layout (two-dimensional layout), use the [grid](/components/Grid) component instead. When in doubt, we recommend reading the [grid vs stack](/components/Grid#grid-vs-stack) documentation.
```

> We recommend using the stack component for inline or text based elements. The stack allows scaling, wraping and shrinking features depending on each item content. For example, a navigational list or a button group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the stack component for inline or text based elements. Stack enables items to scale, wrap, and shrink depending on each item's content and the available space.

Reviewer: Removed the example here because it's repeated on the Do/Don't section below.

Reviewer 2: 👍 Also in case that suggestion isn't applied, there's a tiny typo on `wrapping`

      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Use the stack component for inline or text based elements. Like a
      navigational list or a button group.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/53436826-515f-49d6-b33c-d84124f29aa4"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Don't use the stack component to create a grid of items. Use the grid
      component instead.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

## Options

### Gap

Use the gap to change the space between items. Use small values when grouping closed related items, and larger values to separate sections or non-related items between them.

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/dd508033-0435-48af-9b0b-ab1881608d8e"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Use large gap values to separate sections or non-related items.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/3e6974eb-2f80-4fee-9000-dc9fa31432a7"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>Don't use large gap values for related items.</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

> ### Direction, alignment and justification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Direction, alignment, and justification
```

> Use the direction to control the rendering direction of items. The direction can be adjusted on different viewports, for example, you can render items horizontally on large viewports, but vertically on small viewports for better readability and composition. For example, an icon and a label might be rendered horizontally on large viewports, but vertically on small viewports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the direction to control the rendering direction of items. The direction can be adjusted on different viewports. For example, an icon and a label might be rendered horizontally on large viewports, but vertically on small viewports for better readability and composition.
```
